so we're going to do a little experiment
make sure you're close enough to get
that we're gonna see if we can combine
more the podcast with the videos and to
see if you
friends in Mexico Marta and her students
of thing and this will give us another
opportunity to go back into ETO and
further refine our technique
and to give you more perspective so a
little talking at first we're going to
start looking at the technique through
Union Theory okay why why well the
technique was designed through Union
theory and what is the benefit of this
kind of investigation is I can
reverse-engineer all the crap that has
become Aikido through the decades by
seeing if it is consistent with Union
Theory just like any kind of reason
based paradigm is it is the paradigm
consistent here or not if it's not I
should look for a different way of doing
the technique do you understand
so the techniques were designed that way
no one really knows how far back young
young Giri goes a lot of times people
will say it was in the e gene which is a
book that later became a kind of
divination magic-based ritual text but
there's problems with that
interpretation even though that is the
most popular one nowadays the podcast
will cover remote most of that but the
aging is somewhere six or seven BCE okay
now in the aging it was not called yin
and Yan but you can't see the philosophy
there actually the words designations
there were used was firm and yielding
which is very close to some of the
meanings that we use when we talk about
kokyo and I
so what is eun-young some basic premises
here yet yong is not a philosophy it is
an experiential system of being meaning
it's not something who reached through
language games like Vic and Stein might
have reached what meaning is and what's
not meaning and that kind of stuff it
was what did not what do I experience in
the world and then okay this seems to be
consistent with that some underlying
premises that we'll discuss here and
then we'll discuss more the complex ones
in the podcast is that human beings have
a special status in that they can both
go against Union theory or they can go
with it which means that you can up
or not up okay and that is why we
are interested in reverse engineering
that technique versions that we
up till now okay because they can easily
be incorrect today it's very common for
someone to look at you young dearie and
say that it's some sort of alternative
to judeo-christian morality that that it
has no reference of good or evil this is
incorrect
ie evil is just another manifestation it
could be a yin evil could be a young
people and also there's a whole other
level of unnaturalness for somebody
who's violating in Yan theory meaning
you could actually be doing evil
according to Ian Young theory which is
not good for everyone else but to also
violate Ian Yong theory is to be
unnatural which is a whole other level
of okay and because of that
from the time it was generated it was
considered a cultivated state meaning
awakened people could do proper Yan Yan
theory and unawakened people just cannot
and so you would do dance ritual and
martial arts through ritual forms to
kind of embody or act out a yin-yang
idealized scenario that's where your key
one was it comes from okay so with that
in mind now let's look into more what it
what it is
or or where we most misunderstand
so people that just see the e Jing is a
kind of divination magical text you get
these lists this is all the ends and
this is all the Jung's but the early
sources this is very much of
misunderstanding and that's probably
what led to the current versions of
Kiyomasa we have today
nothing is in a priori and nothing is
young a priority okay and nothing can
remain in and nothing can remain young
so you could young a relative and
transitory do you understand that and
part of the problem with bad Kevon Wazza
is that it's not relative and it tries
to be permanent it defies this
transitory nation okay
at the same time
yin and yang is manifested concentric Li
so it might maybe my right arm is going
to be yin to my left arm for example and
be in a transition of moving into Yong
and as my left arm use it to UPenn to
Yin do you understand
okay but that might be how you can look
at it externally concentric Li I can go
internally and if my external skeletal
muscular system is Yong then inside must
begin okay and you can go one more
concentric circle in my mind has to be
in harmony whether it's your young
depending on what I'm doing with my arms
I can't just be bodily and for this
reason the sage is the only one who can
do hee and Jung or you could reverse
that and go whoever can do you Jung is a
sage do you understand that
that's how Chinese philosophy look that
loosely everyone was trying to be that
person that caught the bathing person so
it has to include my body it has to be
relative to what he is doing it has to
be relative to what I'm trying to do it
has to include my internal organization
it has to include my mind as well okay
all right so let's just start with ecole
and we'll do i on me okay and the first
thing we're going to learn is we're
going to do a gong manifestation so
young fer fer not you okay so he's
pushing and I am going to take his
energy and let it pass through me down
to that foot but I'm not going to let it
pass through me by losing my mind
so as the external form of my arm is
young then the internal form has to
begin so he can squish and this very is
very mushy do you see it's very mushy
you can squish everything
it's very mushy you can wiggle
everything
okay but I have to start there
so wool in the anything you can compare
and you can you can squish things hard
squish so you can see how Russia and he
can he's pushing he's pushing hard but
it stays like that okay and so this
[Applause]
internally on me that's totally
different incident okay all right so
that would be a violation that's good
John Deere okay all right let's try to
get there okay so again if this is a
physiological skill it's also
psychological because if if he triggers
me with fear or threat and internally I
will have tension and then I don't have
you know okay but there is a huge
physiological component to it that we
tackle by releasing it and relaxing okay
but how come I'm not flying backwards
how come it's not really there is a
human component but where's the young
component yes the ground and so to the
herbs he's yet do you understand that
because relative to me maybe he's young
but relative to the earth he's young
he's that he's a speck of dust okay so
that's what I'm doing here is I'm
triggering triggering the ground okay so
we're going to same thing you I want you
to see
how bushy everything is but structural
integrity and I'm just going to push on
the earth and you can see that there is
now getting to him relative to it which
heart so if I cannot organize the end
and young here and I cannot organize the
young to get here now I have to change
the technique so I start in doing this
kind of stuff you see so instead of you
instead of using the ground I use this
kind of pushing my hips to see that I'm
just kind of pushing it as opposed to as
more I actually am releasing I released
him more so he hits the ground more I'm
actually releasing more as opposed to
this pushing and so because I lack the
physiological skill now I had to change
the technique you see that but that but
you can use the annyeong theory go
that's just pushing on what's pushing on
you do you understand and that's so I
know that's wrong okay but that's how it
happens okay all right so let's take
those mechanics and now let's look
relative to between him and I and
relative to the technique to prescribe
movement okay so I'm going to take the
same external firmness internal yielding
and I am going to keep it
and zero that's what I want to do that's
what the technique does so here we have
a contention you see that that's what I
was using to be able to project him
so if you if he went yeah right when I
yield when I yield he goes in go again
that's y'all try it again
he goes yes do you see and there's no
projection but if you push this hard oh
there's a projection so we're going to
show it again when I when I healed you
yield these thing done nothing okay so I
don't want to violate that by going
positive or negative because he could
yield if I go like this
so instead I keep this feeling this
pressure right here and I move off now
this will look to you like there was
he'll be on the horn like I'm going like
this you see
but I'm not I just I'll show you so when
I go here can you push in I go here can
you push it
I go around can you push it push harder
No so you can see okay
and you you're gonna push me here okay
so I'm gonna yield you're gonna push me
up we're on the other side you're gonna
push me that's not
this is what a lot of people understand
I key and you me and Mike here they go
oh it's so soft because the guys don't
mind it it is soft but the hand but it's
not salt anywhere else because then I
don't have the Gator y'all do you
understand so I take the wrist and I'm
going to make the wrist grab good so
then the elbow becomes y'all you
understand but not like this
this is now pushing back and it doesn't
matter if you have a good bond if you
can so this guilt pulls and the elbow
picks up you'll feel the weight in the
elbow because the risk is going to begin
that elbow is going to be gone and the
elbow is his upper body so he his lower
body is going to be one yeah okay so
make the wrist kid elbow y'all because
we want the lower body here oh you'll
feel the weight there
every right there you'll feel that just
want you to feel that heavy not this
that's making the wrists young go round
the wrist also heavy so it feels young
boom oh yeah young give young okay so
let's do a little bit more sophisticated
philosophy how do I actually make the
elbow Johan yes yeah okay so I hope to
manifest as young as I brought young
energy to it yeah we're going to do I
make his elbow young I'm gonna make it
good yet again okay but I just want you
to i have structure and he's moving
around this is not yet and then you're
gonna feel the elbow copy mistake too
soft guilty
common mistake keeping water go round
hole then the way it's going to be there
okay
so there's certain geometries that you
have to have okay so watch watch this
young
and generally there is an inward turning
spiral and then there is the opposite is
the outward turning spider okay so as I
go so I'm pointing outward oh this way
not like this that's young then there is
the larger circle which is I'm moving
this that way you see that so some of
your going along too young some of you
are only doing the larger circle but
you're going to get young right about
there okay so if you curve around it you
won't get it now here's the thing
you're gonna try that and you won't get
it why what was that because you have to
do the two in relation okay but why
can't I do with the two in relation to
each other you're right where what's the
interest concentric circle my mind is
going to chat me up okay because I can't
be a cat yield to him he pushes on me
and I will push back do you understand
and so these patterns will not make
sense to you will not trust them this
this will feel totally crazy to you
unless you do this okay but it is soft
but firm this bulb
going back it could be nothing that
young says remember I told you it does
not mean oh it's always going back it
goes over okay
okay so remember we said that I helped
make that young by being in ok and then
by giving is young so how much you get
of one is how much you give of the other
your exam that means their relative we
said that and they're interdependent so
when I make how much young you get there
is how much did you gain here okay so if
I use Dom on this hat and that elbow
will stay there you see there's not
going to be much projection but if you
have is truly in then you get a lot of
protection and then so forth so the more
young that elbow becomes then the morgue
in his lower body rebounds which I need
because I'm going to do eet so if I go
young young he's way out there there's
not much
relative to him because he does not come
in tonight okay
so to help me get him in more once I
come along here once he goes young here
I met this young energy go that way I
have an operation in front of me I'm
getting the lower consciousness it's
going to want to push on it because it's
pushing on you you already did your job
bull it goes around you this way
and it brings him in more okay so in the
last row yet and we were showing y'all
well it's gonna push you that this time
I'm going to yield to it it's firm so
I'm going to yield and I'll bring it
around my body and as I bring it around
my body right around I have the live
your life if you need me
there's your jinyeong and I have
beginning of his shikaku where I want to
go okay so we go wolf and I'm in here
and most has soft it starts hard and
then gets really soft and I go in and
the baby is very hard bull
and my technique and it's very relaxed
[Music]
but there's no yielding to it like most
Aikido becomes not to me that
[Music]
okay so again remember we'll make the
point again so when people yield here
they yield all over and now we have a
young manifestation right here with Edie
me and then again you'll y'all over I'm
going to push that elbow you're not
letting come in did the elbow goes soft
he is part firm so don't half-ass it
here like because your elbow went in
here and you're like this that's safe
ground energy I use it you understand
remember I may be Indian with that
ground energy I do the same thing so
this wood is gonna drown pull by loading
up the planet there's the young then
they go round you this rain load the
right foot there's the yard
let it go around you load the left foot
in
do not rudder you're not loading the
planet okay
do not stay out here push
you didn't let the elbow go yet boom
around
planet big circle little circle there's
no uncle's around use of the foot
there's the off let it go around you
load the foot oh okay
so here that class is breaking apart
we lost stop at the beginning but now we
have you you too young here and you're
pushing that in that elbow is irrelevant
now the imagine he has a frontline
grandma and I'm heading towards the cane
okay so as I go around I goes around you
don't even need that
you already got past it
boom there goes here you guys are
pushing you're using this to end this
battle and now he's pushing on you and
that's why you lose your mouth and take
all those baby steps and those pause
lists you waiting for the inertia to
change direction so you have reconciled
reconcile cheering reconciled reconciled
here
therefore day if I'm not pushing on this
elbow I don't need to be stronger than
his elbow girders but it doesn't mean
it's soft it's just soft at his elbow
the base is hard
okay that's started with this tension
point you can see I starting to
reconcile it then I have another
contention point and I let it go past me
and then I take his face wash the other
way you saw y'all on y'all okay
even no matter what you no matter how
you do it
holy to them okay it's all the young man
yo
and of course right if the person pushes
into me right if I'm strong enough he's
not gonna do it do you understand if I
okay we're here go into her right it's
not gonna do it
if I'm allowed to counter or go boom
he's not gonna do it
you get it okay so here's why I bring
that up I am not using his arm to take
them down he was already going down
do you understand so if if I wasn't
prescribed this ritual narrative then
technique is over a guy comes in right
I'm here
or running or inviting the next time but
he was already falling so what I'm going
to do is stay up with his arm boom whoa
the design I'm not pushing him around my
body stay up with his arm around they
open in contrast you get here push up is
the movie part but there's no young
mañana
[Music]
you have a lot of time doing this
because you wake down my dog here and
you have to wait for the weight scale in
order to move the body but if you wait
y'all again but I used to plan it then
you always be using
[Music]
so as you get into the bulk part as you
can in the ballpark you want to really
start working on that inner circle
beaver that okay because the nature of
the narrative is he is overall young and
that he's the aggressor
he's the initiator do you understand and
so the overall skill that I want
I want the Yogi's skill and the most
inner circle your spirit your mind and
consciousness I don't care what you call
it
okay so the best way of refining that is
daruka valuable hard-earned house two
things are going to happen your bouquet
will will amplify all of your young
conflicts which is the novel stage like
behavior the contestation the resistance
okay because even though I can see it
your minds and your faces you think
you're getting it but you have a lot of
y'all on the elbow and you're not
getting it and when they come in full
speed they're going to show you the
young conflicts by your base being
knocked off adjustment steps or waiting
you have to wait for the inertia to
unpin your feet you understand so all of
that is telling you even if you succeed
in doing the technique stutter steps
waving foot pauses you just stopping
those are all the results of young young
conflicts or violations that we've gone
here if on the other hand you're doing
it right it actually gets easier
oh why because there's less IP
requirement and is a more difficult
skill alright so but I can use our
training even if even at my level I
might not have as many mess ups as many
younger complex but he will still
trigger my inner concentric circle and
so I have to keep practicing to
releasing okay and that is a perishable
skill so if I take a week off guess what
its back
okay that's why we train and the more
you train daily and the more years you
have the longer duration you can have
without training and the more intense
your situation can be before it actually
triggers you to failure you understand
okay so he just comes in he's going to
run as hard as you can
[Music]
all tension let it go Hecht alright
let's try