hi I'm Christopher Hine and this is
gonna be a video video about what Aikido
is so what is Aikido this tends to be a
big problem it's a big confusing thing
right now for everyone I think the way
that I explain IQ is really
straightforward we'll make a lot of
sense to people
I think if you use it kind of as a
barometer it'll help you figure out
what's going on with Aikido so the first
thing to understand is that Aikido is a
system a system is not just a random
collection of techniques it's an
organization of things so if you have a
problem there's another suggested answer
to the problem and as you go through
this as you go through the system you
constantly are getting answers to new
problems that are arising as you go so a
system is not just a random collection
of things it's it's an attempt to get us
to a resolution of some sort the next
thing you have to understand is what's a
resolution in Aikido so Aikido is not
about fighting I think you could ask any
Aikido instructor in the world and they
would say oh yeah I can it was not about
fighting but what does that mean and how
can something be a martial art when it's
not about fighting so we all know the
you fight or flight' when conflict
arises right so there's a conflict you
either choose to fight or flight'
there's another part of this which is
negotiate and that's not really talked
about in most martial art systems
however the idea of negotiation is the
goal of Aikido Aikido means the way of I
ki i ki means energetic harmony so the
goal in Aikido is to get us to a
position where we can make energetic
harmony that sounds crazy like some kind
of hippy talk
what is energetic harmony energetic
harmony is a conversation or music or
something non-physical that is
harmonious in nature so if we're having
a conversation then ideally you wouldn't
want to attack me or hurt me right if
you wanted to attack in me and hurt me
how can I get us back to a position
where we again can have a conversation
so this is the goal of Aikido to get us
back to the Aiki the way to have an AI
key interaction so if someone wants to
break it down how do we do that so
remember Aikido is not about fighting
it's about having an energetic
interaction that's harmonious how do we
do that if someone wants to attack us so
remember in Aikido we want to have a
harmonious
interaction and not some kind of
dominant dominating interaction we don't
want to fight with someone so what is
our success level so if you're looking
at success in boxing success in boxing
is knocking someone out what is success
in wrestling that's holding someone down
what's success in judo it's throwing
someone so other martial arts have clear
clearly defined ideas of success in
Aikido success is having a conversation
with someone so if we can get it back to
a state where we're having a
conversation that's what we ideally want
to do there's several ways we can do
that but remember in IQ no we don't want
to fight we want to negotiate
so the problem arises when he won't let
me have the conversation with him right
so if I'm sitting you're dealing with
this guy and he won't let me have a
conversation with him
then I've got to defend myself in some
way I've got to keep myself from being
hurt now that doesn't mean hurting him
right so I don't suspect you he doesn't
like me and then deck him now I could
and that would be an answering boxing
hands or if I want to hold him down
that would be an answer that wrestling
has or throwing judo whatever martial
art and IQ no I simply want to have that
conversation so what he's gonna try to
do is get me in some way right he can
punch me he can hit me he can he could
grab me ready to do any of this stuff to
me all this stuff would be bad we
couldn't have a conversation when he
does that because we're in physical he's
got me physically so I can't do anything
so what I want to do is always keep a
minimum safety distance so our minimum
safety distance is this from this
position he cannot touch me without
taking a step so maybe he get surprised
me and hit me can't surprise me and kick
me a lot of the actually tough stuff
like oh you have to get really good hand
deflections well the first step before
really good hand deflections is you have
to get good distance and good mine so
I'm gonna have good space between me and
this guy if I have good space then he
cannot surprise me now ideally what
would happen is every time he takes a
step towards me I take a counter step
all right now a lot of people say like
how practical is something like this
it's highly practical in fact it's the
basic skill then you use all the time
right if someone wants to attack you you
probably don't just go raw or shooter
double-leg you say
man calm down everything's cool let's
not have a fight right that is ideally
what you want to do and that's exactly
what Aikido prescribes as well now Ike
you know if the system continues on if
he gives us a problem at this range so
remember Ike use a system meaning every
time we have a new problem we have a new
set of answers as we go so you can make
a little flowchart that explains this
right so the next problem would come in
when he starts to break this distance
down so remember ideally I'm trying to
keep this minimum safety distance every
time he takes a step I take a step the
next stage is what if he's able to break
that distancing okay so with our system
the the main idea is we want to have a
conversation so success in guy Aikido
number one goal is to have a
conversation a non physical interaction
what if he threatens to attack me in
this so what having a conversation and I
know he's up to something
I want to keep and set this minimum
safety distance so that's my goal every
time he tries to encroach on this
minimum safety distance I'm gonna take a
counter step that keeps us at this
minimum safety distance that enables me
to keep him from surprising me at all
which is what I want now how would he
break that down well what he would
probably do is try and rush in past that
right so understand that every time he
takes a normal step in I'm taking a
counter step right so if he's just
stepping in normally I'm also stepping
out normally he can't get any closer to
me so in order to get closer to me he's
going to have to lunge in right so this
lunge in is what I chose next set of
answers are so the next set of answers
are armed suppression and taiyo kinko so
tyno HECO is a position change right so
imagine he was coming on a straight line
to me I want to change my position so
he'll miss me really simple along with
that we're gonna get hand suppression
okay so now we've got our main idea I
wanna have a conversation with Josh
number two what if he's trying to
encroach on me I want to set that
minimum safety distance and keep the
minimum safety distance
how will he break that down he's gonna
rush in in some way to break it down
when he does that I want to make tyno
Hanko so he comes in I get off line now
the next important thing to understand
is I need
some kind of hand suppression but don't
suppress his hand even if I move off the
side he's just gonna shoot his hands
over here and grab me I don't want him
to be able to control me remember if he
controls me that it's gonna be really
difficult to have that conversation that
we're angling towards so what I do is I
get some kind of arm suppression here
now what this does it keeps it makes it
very difficult for this arm to come in
and get me right so he can move his arm
of course and I can move my arm I can
keep him at bay which is what I want he
could also reach across from his other
arm and I can use one side to stop the
other side this basic idea is where we
get the concept of eeky eeky Ozai
keido's first main principle and that is
to control at the elbow
now why elbow control so good is because
if I'm off here at the hand he can move
his hand really fast and it's hard for
me to keep up with it so if it goes high
it's hard for me to chase it up high if
it goes low hard for me to chase it low
if I control Josh at the shoulder he
still has a lot of mobility so it's hard
for me to stop him
however the elbow is a nice medium place
where if his arm goes down I can go down
arm goes up I can go up I can keep a
hold of him also if he tries too hard to
go up I get what is a true proper ego
which is a way to throw him away from me
which is what I want
so remember he's now thrown himself in
here to break the distance I've made ty
no hanko so I've made a variation in
position so that way I'm safe and I'm
getting some kind of arm suppression to
keep him from getting me so this arm
suppresses what he helps me to be able
to escape here now what if it breaks
down from this okay so remember our
number one goal have a conversation how
do I do that if he wants to attack me I
keep a minimum safety distance every
time he tries to get closer to me I take
a step out of that what if you rushes in
I want to get tie no link Oh a very
variation in position that makes me
strong relative to him and I want to get
suppression but what if that breaks down
right so what if I'm trying to get armed
suppression here and he sneaks around
that and he gets ahold of me now we have
the concept of HOH dokie how to break
free so he grabbed me remember my goal
is to have a conversation so if I can do
something simple to break free then
where again it's space and that space
might be able to give me the chance to
have a conversation with him and talk
him down from whatever he was doing this
is the idea of dou Dori so they grab
body so that could be a cop the Doria
shoulder grab maybe he gets both
shoulders maybe he grab my lapel
maybe he grabs me from behind either
both of my shoulders or my collar from
behind right so all those things are
likely to happen if we're moving around
a lot
and I'm trying to evade this guy gets
and grabs me you can see that these
things will really naturally happen so
we're at range which means we're not
setting up double leg takedown Zoar
anything like that I'm always trying to
move away move away move away we're
moving fast at this point no one's
standing still so you got to understand
Aikido is a movement
art when I understand that he wants to
attack me I'm trying to move around to
keep him from attacking me so when he's
doing this he's gonna be making quick
grabs to try and get a hold of me to
hurt me so that's why we have these
ideas for escape
in this but what if it breaks down a
little further from there an important
thing to understand is if Josh were to
grab me I don't want to choose to
grapple him back that would be an answer
for jujitsu or or judo or wrestling
something like that where he grabs me
and I say okay so you're gonna grab me
then I'm gonna grab you back and I'm
gonna win because I have superior judo
skill or Jiu Jitsu skill or what have
you
however an Aikido the ideas there's
always another attacker so he grabs me
and I say okay fine now we're gonna go
to grips and I'm gonna get you right the
problem is wallet I'm throwing this guy
and taking a bunch of time to get him
under control his buddies coming up to
attack me and I can't we can't have that
the idea in Aikido is always there's
another attacker somewhere so instead of
him grabbing me and my concept being
okay you've grabbed me let's wrestle now
my concept is simply to get free I need
to break out of this situation because
there's someone else coming and I have
to be able to deal with that person too
when there's another person how do I
deal with that so where weapons come
into play is when they're set a threat
that's so high I cannot escape using the
weapon to defend myself
this again is logical right so a lot of
people who are saying martial arts want
to go through with this idea that like
I'm going to solve everything unarmed
you know I turned myself into such an
awesome weapon that I'm gonna handle you
know multiple people who are armed while
I am unarmed this is a weird idea it's a
culturally a weird idea too it's it's
exactly the reason why people who are
interested in self-defense you learn to
use weapons as well right so weapons
helped us so this
where weapons come into play in Aikido
now understand just because we're using
a weapon our philosophy doesn't change
at all I want to get to the conversation
if they would allow me to get to the
place where we can have a conversation I
won't use the weapon but I'm using the
weapon now because they won't allow me
to get to that position so what if this
guy attacks me now and I have a weapon
okay so I have to use a weapon because
the amount of force that the attackers
are bringing is so significant that I
need to defend myself this is exactly
what you would think in a home defense
situation right when someone breaks into
your house you don't think oh I'm gonna
run down there and box the guy in my
house you get your firearm or a golf
club or whatever's handy that you can
defend yourself with so that's exactly
what I would do in Aikido as well the
amount of force is so great that I need
to use a weapon to defend myself in
Aikido we classically trained with three
weapons the tanto the Jo and the book in
representing a sword a stick a longest
stick and a knife when we use them in
Aikido they're referred to as Ikey can I
ki jo and I ki tanto and the reason
they're referred to as this is because
we're remembering the ideas we still
want to get to the conversation just
because I have a knife in my hand
doesn't mean I want to stab someone it
means that he's giving me no choice but
to use the night sometimes so now the
rules are exactly the same I'm trying to
keep my minimum safety distance every
time he steps in I step out but if he
comes in quick and there's multiple
attackers I may need to use my knife now
if I'm using a knife because the threat
of force is so great that I have to use
it
what's a problem that I could arise so
remember we're thinking systematically
about IQ no the next problem that can
come up is what if I can't use my weapon
for some reason how would he stop me
from using a weapon one way he could
stop me from using a weapon is by
grabbing my hand he's got a hold of my
hand I cannot use this now there's a lot
of ideas in Aikido about some kind of
sacred magnetism or something weird that
happens when someone's doing an Aikido
technique and that's why they can't let
go no he can't let go because if he lets
go of this I'll stab him so this is what
allows the techniques of Aikido to come
off from wrist crafts
he's desiring to hold my hand now
remember my main goal is to break free
how would he hold my hand if he caught
it well he can hold it with two on one
that's called Muro
he can hold it cross-handed like this he
can hold it both of my hands like this
or he can hold both of my hands from
behind why would those things arise well
if I attacked him from this side of his
body most likely he's going to come into
katate dori if I came from this side of
his body most likely he's gonna go into
Yakutia Dori what if he got the katate
dori what would he want to do well he'd
probably want to go two on one because
that's a better grab that gives us
marathi Dori what if when he grabbed me
I switched knife hands to stab him if he
grabs my other hand we now have Ryoka
Dori what if I came from this side of
his body and he decided to get behind me
and choke me so he comes back here and
now he's got me chokes what am I gonna
do I'm gonna put the knife in my other
hand to stab what if he doesn't like
that he's gonna come back here for who
she really Dory right
so you can see now why we have these
weapon hand techniques right so all this
katate dori up to a door when you see in
people go that's silly because why would
that ever arise it arose because the
threat was so high that they've grabbed
my hand now you might say well when he
grabs and he's not just gonna hold it
he's gonna try to get to a better
position to wrestle that out of your
hand right she's gonna try and get to
some very serious tight position so what
do you do about that the first part to
understand is that is getting outside of
Iquitos regular curriculum right exactly
like as if you went to a boxing coach
and you said hey boxing coach teach me
how to get out of headlocks the boxing
coach would tell you we don't do that
here now you could say yeah but that's a
part of fighting and I'm here to learn
to fight so you should teach that to me
but the boxing coaches job is to teach
you boxing in aikido the job is to teach
you simply how to get back to that
negotiation phase if that intense
grappling situation happens that's
beyond IQ dos idea but further I Iquitos
always attempting to get free so
remember when he grabs me I'm not
thinking how can I get in there to stab
him all I'm thinking is how can I clear
my hand quickly so I can set that safe
distance back up again so that's what
I'm working towards so again here we
have another set of answers if he
escalates but what if this guy and his
buddy are armed as well all right so
what if he continues to escalate it up
and they become harmed so again you have
to
go back to the beginning of our theory
so I hid as a system so it's built on
this one idea of we want to have a
conversation we don't want to physically
fight we want to have a conversation
with the other person so number one is
I'm scared he's actually gonna
physically attack me so I create a
minimum safety distance if he tries to
edge closer to me I simply step out of
the distance if he lunges in to attack
me I make a position change and try and
get armed suppression if he goes around
my arm suppression gets ahold to my body
I tried to escape him what if he's got a
buddy right if he's got a buddy I cannot
wrestle with this guy so I have to keep
trying to keep myself free also if he's
got a buddy the situation gets very
intense and I might need to use a weapon
so this is where me using weapon comes
into play and he might be grabbing my
wrist to keep me from using the weapon
but what if him and his buddy are armed
it's important to understand I get as a
traditional Japanese martial art and so
it's looking at the traditional weaponry
of Japan before the modern era right so
we're not talking up his stolen rifles
we're talking about classic weapons
classic weapons in Aikido are the katana
the yari the naginata so while these
weapons might seem silly to someone
studying modern martial arts they are
very practical weapons for the day and
today one of most of the lessons we
learn with those weapons we can apply so
if they're using a weapon then we need
to learn how to disarm the weapon and
this is where a lot of the Aikido
techniques come from so remember the
Aikido technique its goal is not to get
to them so in most martial arts we think
oh how do I get the person so when you
think of something like a song Keo you
think oh the goal of song Keo is to
twist his wrist so hard that I damage
the wrist or I heard him or and make him
be compliant no the goal of song Keo is
perhaps to disarm someone who has me or
if I had the weapon to clear my weapon
hand so I can be free so this is where
Aikido techniques come into play you can
use most of the classic Aikido
techniques that we see using them as
disarms for when someone is armed and
attacking you so remember I want to keep
that distance but if they break that
distance down and they get arms
oppression I'm
to disarm all right so now remember my
goal is to keep this guy at distance but
what if he rushes in with the weapon we
might end up in a position kind of like
this right a lot of people will say yeah
but IQ teaches you to strip the weapon
away from some position like this first
of all I'm not just gonna stay like this
I would begin to start to grab a hold of
this guy so I could get the arm the
weapon away if I needed to but what if
he pulls back remember if he pulls back
what I want is distance again so that's
fine if he's pulling the weapon back I
want to pull myself back as well so we
again get out of distance
I'm always manipulating that distance so
there is space between us this only
happens because he is pushing into it so
hard and I'm not able to back out so if
he pulls himself out that's fine I'll
pull myself out as well exactly what I
want if we're in this close distance
what things does Aikido teach us to deal
with well the first one is Eco that
comes right from our weapons to print or
from our armed suppression and gives us
weapons oppression as well this Ethio
can quickly be turned into a neath yoke
that nikkyo could quickly be turned into
a song kill that Sankyo could be turned
into a young kill that young Kyo could
be turned into a gokyo that gokyo could
be turned into a Rocio and all of these
things have the potential to strip the
weapon away from his hand so the classic
techniques taught Nikita are teaching us
to disarm as well as clear so understand
if I have a weapon he's also gonna be
stopping that and I can use those same
techniques like Sankyo Nico eto young
kyo gokyo and Rocio to clear my weapon
as well as take weapons from him the
principles taught in Aikido are teaching
us how to deal with weapon situations
where the situation's got so extreme
that he's armed or I'm armed
or perhaps both of us are armed hey what
if both of us are armed aikido teaches
weapon on weapon techniques as well so
we study how to deal with a sword and a
sword a sword and a Joe or a Joe and a
sword so the idea is what if both of us
are armed remember the main goal is
still to get to conversation it's never
to just beat the
the guy up that's not what I want to do
but he keeps bringing the force more and
more and more so I have to escalate
along with him otherwise he's gonna
overcome me so I can also teach his
weapon on weapon techniques for this
very reason I think teaches an array of
different ways to deal with this same
city's extremely extreme situations
these situations bill Aikido has answers
to deal with them as we go so understand
the goal of Aikido what successful in
Aikido is to have a conversation that
conversation might have to go a long
route to be had but the goal is not to
beat this guy out not to throw him not
to hold and not to hit him those things
might happen as consequence but that's
not what I want what I want is simply to
have a conversation so when you're
thinking about what is practical like
you know think about what we're trying
to do which is the most practical thing
in the world have a conversation making
a chord so that way he doesn't want to
hurt me and I don't need to hurt him